Let's talk about a growth movement,
a very common growth strategy
that is vertical integration
at once that you have to
understand well.
Let us start with the concept.
What is?
This is very clear when
we look at the supply chain.
The supply chain mainly
before reaching the consumer
has four links that are
raw materials or commodities.
There are usually some manufacturers
or producers.
The wholesalers are
the wholesalers in English and
the retailer is the distributor.
There are some sectors where the
wholesaler is called a
distributor, etc., but there
are four lines and usually in
almost all sectors the functions
of each of the lines are
very similar and finally the
consumer is reached at the end.
Well, vertical integration
strategy is a move that takes
you to occupy within the
supply chain more than
a link but in particular
going backwards.
In other words, by entering into the
business of a supplier, for example.
It is usually done by inorganic
growth.
It is often more common to buy
or merge with a supplier.
Let's take examples because you will understand
it better.
by Starbucks.
He decides to start buying
coffee growers, coffee farms, as
they call him in English, in different
countries.
by Netflix.
Netflix is not only the platform
through which you access content,
but also Netflix creates
its own content.
by Amazon.
similarly.
Amazon has become a Mercadona
publisher.
Mercadona's strategy with its interproviders,
which we will analyze in
detail, could be considered
a vertical integration
backwards.
Even if you do not buy from your suppliers,
you establish very close relationships
with your suppliers.
It goes backwards in the supply chain.
What is important is that
we understand what the goals
or benefits of this type of
movement are.
Let us take examples because they
are better understood.
Let's start with the example of Starbucks.
What is Starbucks pursuing when it
starts buying farms or coffee growers
in different countries around
the world?
Let us see.
Let us reason.
One is to ensure quality.
As a manufacturer, you can
guarantee the quality you want.
It does not depend on others.
or to ensure supply.
You have in mind that when you
depend on suppliers, especially
in certain sectors, well,
because there can be at
certain times, there can be shortages,
etc.
If you are the producer, you
have absolute control, as we
said, on quality, on supply.
In addition, there is an economic benefit
because obviously that producer
is applying a margin to the product,
in this case, coffee.
If you enter your supplier's business,
that margin, as it is called,
you capture it.
Once you have captured that margin,
you can choose to either make more
money or make more money throughout
the supply chain.
You earn more money or what you could
do is impact that drop on the
final price.
This, for example, provides
a competitive advantage.
The cost is more stable.
Think that in many cases the
commodity markets, well, because
they have some volatility
that can be permanently affecting
your income account and
what you do by integrating
backwards is eliminating
that risk.
Now we will analyze the case of
Netflix or HBO, which are two
competitors with very similar
proposals and both have opted for
integrating backwards and for creating
content, movies, series, etc.
In fact, the content they most disclose
and promote, for example, in
the case of Netflix with Narcos,
are their own content.
Let's see what are the reasons
that have led these two companies
to integrate backwards.
Well, I think the most important
one is that they generate competitive
advantages and huge barriers to entry
into the traditional business, that
is, in your traditional business
I am referring to the Netflix or
HBO business.
Why is it?
Well, you think that if they are
able to control, to have exclusive
content, for example, like
Narcos, like the Narcos series
that has been a worldwide
surplus, it is a competitive
advantage.
You are no longer dependent
on the content producers to license
it to you or to license
it to others, etc.
No, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no.
The content is yours.
And if that content is very good,
obviously it is a competitive advantage.
I have the same example of Netflix
and HBO, but similar is Amazon.
Because Amazon, at the moment
it becomes a book publisher,
generates a huge competitive
advantage.
Because you have control over that
product, the control in exclusive.
And in addition, the entry barrier
that Amazon has is very important
when it has, say, when
it has controlled much of the supply
chain.
But another option is, another
benefit is that they can enter the
business of their suppliers with
a huge competitive advantage.
But now the competitive advantage, let's
say it doesn't affect, I'm not thinking
about the competitive advantage in
the Netflix or HBO business of which
you are a customer.
No, I'm thinking about the competitive
advantage as a producer of that content.
Why is it?
Because if you are a content
producer, content that is usually
sold through platforms like
Netflix, but you are also
Netflix, that producer
has huge competitive advantages
because it has the insured
business.
Let's think, let's compare two
producers who create a series
like Narcos, but one belongs
to Netflix.
It is clear that the one that belongs
to Netflix has a huge competitive advantage.
Therefore, as we have seen, two
of the common reasons to opt for backward
vertical integration are to generate
competitive advantages in the
traditional business or
generate competitive advantages
in the business of an earlier
link in the value chain that
is the one you acquire.